# MIPSSim_PLandCache
Phase 1: This simulator creates a stack which can hold upto 8kb of memory and all the regular 32 registers are present. There are two modes in which a given assembly code in MIPS can be executed: Step-by-step and complete execution. A function called displayState has been added to print the show the step by step transitions in the registers and the memory stack. General instructions like add, sub, mul, addi, andi, ori, sll, slt, lw, sw, bne, beq, j, jr, jal, halt have been implemented Labels in the code and memory elements are stored in their respective structures. Program counter is also present. Preprocess has only been implemented to store one memory element per label as of now. ParseInstruction function parses each instruction and identifies what registers are to be used or what is the offset of certain instructions. The starting address of stack is kept as 47996 with 2000 elements.

Phase 2: Struct elements to simulate each pipe between the five stages is added. Created fuctions to perform the pipelining stages individually. They are not fully implemented. Variables to detect data hazards, branch hazards were added. Pipelining is simulated using a separate function. Parser should be modified to incorporate these new pipes and send values to them. Only implemented for r-type instruction. Function to detect hazard is not done. Function to squash the instruction in case of branch instruction is implemented.

Phase 3: Created classes for individual blocks, sets and total cache. Objects can be created to create a two level cache. Separate file should be provided to feed specifications(cache size, block size, associativity, access latency) of the two level cache. Note that units should not be mentioned on the file, cache and block size are assumed to be in bytes. Function to access the block from a given address is implemented which also updates the lru count whenever a particular block is accessed. Lru count is a variable in the block class. Function to insert a block is not implemented. Incorporation of cache part of the problem with the pipelined simulator is not done. 
